Chapter 1 
When I was six years old, I once saw an amazing picture in a book about life in the jungle, called “True Stories”. It showed a boa constrictor who was swallowing an animal. Here is a copy of the picture:  


And here’s what it said in the book: “Boa constrictors swallow their prey whole without chewing it. After that, they are unable to move and they sleep for the six months it takes them to digest it.”  I thought a lot about the adventures of the jungle, and after a while I took a coloured pencil and drew my first picture. My picture number 1. It looked like this:


I showed my masterpiece to the grown-ups and I asked them if my drawing scared them. 

But they answered: “Scared? Why would I be scared of a hat?” 

My drawing wasn’t supposed to be a hat. It was supposed to be a boa constrictor who had swallowed an elephant. So I drew the inside of the boa constrictor, to help the grown-up people understand. You always have to explain things to them. My drawing number 2 looked like this: 


The grown-up people told me I should stop drawing pictures of boa constrictors from the outside and the inside and instead concentrate on geography, history, maths and English. So at the age of six I had to give up my brilliant career as a painter. I was too discouraged by the way people treated my drawing number 1 and my drawing number 2. Grown-up people never understand anything on their own. It’s so tiring for children to go on and on explaining everything.

I had to find something else to do, and I learned to fly planes. I’ve flown all over the world. And it’s true, geography has been pretty useful. At a glance, I can tell China from Arizona. That’s handy if you’ve got lost during the night.

During my life, I’ve come into contact with a whole bunch of serious people. I’ve met a lot of grown-ups. I’ve got to know them well. It hasn’t improved my opinion of them much.

When I find one who seems a bit different from the others, I try the experiment of showing them my drawing number 1, which I’ve always kept. I want to know if they really understand anything. But they always answer: “It’s a hat.” So then I don’t talk to them about boa constrictors or jungles or stars. I go down to their level. I talk to them about bridge and golf and politics and neckties. And the grown-up is very happy to find I’m a serious person too.